>> Steve Kinney: So
we've seen it with classes.
We could also observe objects or arrays.
And my favorite part about using
observable with arrays, is that you can
push stuff onto the array, and
that is a legit away to render UI again.
You don't have to like concat things on or
spread operator all over the place.
You can actually just push things on.
It basically takes all of
the methods that arrays have and
that objects have and
does immutable versions of those.
So you can push something on,
it will have the same object, but
it will have triggered the observable
to let everything know.
So that code of honor that we walk in with
react is like never mutate state, right?
Because the way Java Script works
is if you change an array, and
push something that has still
the same array and memory.
And like React and Ember and
all those things have a really hard
time knowing the array has changed.
Versus if you replace the arrays.
Like this is a totally different array,
I should rerender.
With this, you can actually put stuff on.
And because the observable can let
things know that things have changed,
you can actually do all the habits
you've been working so hard to break.
There's one caveat, maps are really cool.
Does anyone not know what
a map is in JavaScript?
I'm going to make believe someone
said yes that they don't know.
Which is, a map is very much
like an object except objects
keys can only be strings or numbers.
A map can have anything as the key.
It can have an object as the key,
it could have a function as the key,
it could have another map as the key.
But they're just like a slightly
more flexible version of objects.
And the reason I bring it up,
they are very cool.
Just FYI, if you need to, rather than,
what is the string version of this?
If you wanna associate it another value,
you should definitely use a map.
Is that they use a set, and
I get syntax automatically.
If you use observable with a regular,
plain old JavaScript object,
and then you add a new property later?
Remember how we saw that when we used
observable or extended observable, and
iterate it over all the keys, and that
made observable, so you add a new key.
That's just a new key,
it's not been observed.
A map will actually be able to go through
the process and make that also observable.
So if you plan on adding new keys
to this object later, use a map.
If you're not ever gonna change
the object's keys, you can use an object.
But which is a little caveat that
I think you'll be happy to know.
And just to kinda like tie some
things together, under the hood,
the way this is working is,
instead of having properties we're
having thunks all over the place, right?
These are, we're getting different
functions that can either resolve to
a previous thing or
alert different things.
Very cool, so
we've looked at mobx in isolation.
We've even seen that we can
effectively re-render UI with it.
Let's look at how that
actually works with React.